Stoic philosophy is about understanding that the self is very fallacious, and being truly prepared for coping with the worst imaginable scenarios so to face the day with a confidence that is now intrinsic to the self and not dependent to external circumstances.
This understanding brings to deep self-acceptance: compassion for the human finite situation, forgiveness for one's own fallacies, appreciation of one's own good qualities and gratitude for the chance of even being alive and aware in the first place.

Self-acceptance is the doorway to self-love: the best perspective one could have on reality and life.
Self-love expands the self beyond one's physical boundaries, to embrace one's best and worst characteristics and happenings, the surroundings, the momentary circumstances, the other living things (people, animals, plants and nature) with no spatial limits.

When you love yourself, you get that you are not your body, and you are not your thoughts.
Your body is just a part of what you now feel you truly are. It is the temporary, ever-changing biological aggregation of cells which makes you present and relevant in the physical dimension of reality. But your body is leaving you, it's changing, getting old, and one day it will stop working altogether.
And you are not your thoughts, as these come from chemical connections in your neural system (the brain) which are tied to facts which are no longer as relevant (past and future) compared to the reality you get to experience in the present moment with your (very limited) perceptions of reality.

The "self" is not confined into the physical limits of the brain, or the nervous system, or even the feedback-loop that is in place when you interact with an IT device (smartphone, PC, etc.), known as the "extended mind". The "self" is really not confined at all, if not just by your awareness level of its lack of confines.

One practical way to embrace this idea and live in coherence with it is to think of reality as a video game.
In fact, both physical reality and video games are evolving environments rich with information, responding to underlying logics and patterns. Or at least so it would seem to us.
So if you think of your body in the physical world as you would consider your avatar character in an action video game, seeing him from a higher standpoint located behind the avatar, you start to see that as the avatar interacts within the environment it is surrounded by, your "self" is really placed outside of the screen altogether, in another universe, projeting its presence on the video game like a "God intelligence", aware of everything (including the distinction of the two worlds) in the a-temporal present moment of the video game.
This realization is the "awakening": a gestalt-like change in perspective where you become aware of this idea, gaining a sudden glimpse of a higher level of consciousness, which is the ultimate source of self-awareness and self-love.

When you love yourself, you are the bigger person, you have a big-picture perspective on life, and so you can realize that you truly do not need anything that you don't already are. You are enough. You are whole. You are everything.
When you love yourself, you identify yourself with everything, and every single part of everything: every individual form of life.

Love is the space of reality.
Love, as reality, starts by climbing up the ladder of self-awareness.

In a metaphoric sense, you are not a drop of water in the ocean of reality: you are really the whole ocean, manifesting in deep still calmness or rough furious patterns of waves and currents, doing its dance of life.
