Man has always wanted to search for something beyond himself, beyond his time and beyond what he can experience through the senses.
The search for a *deeper truth* has sparked the passion for looking deeper into the world with science, and deeper into the science with philosophy.

Whether it is through studying the geology of the planet, the evolution of animal species, the mathematical "source code" of reality, by looking deeper inward or by building electronic minds and virtual worlds, we are just trying to uncover the mistery of it all.

That *deeper truth*, the search for which fundamentally orients so much of what we do, is generally regarded to be tuned to the frequencies of unconditional love, peace of mind, deep silence, eternity (timelessness) and unity (selflessness).

But there is a paradoxical irony: that once you recognize it, you miss it.

He who knows he loves does not know love, because love is selfless.
He who knows he is silent does not know silence, because silence is selfless.
He who knows he is real does not know reality, because reality is selfless.
He who knows he is aware does not know awereness, because awereness is selfless.

No mind, no self, no being can deny itself as its way into timelessness or selflessness.

To enter into the abyss means to abandon your self.

The dead are silent, because they do not know they are.

The paradox of reality is too strong for the mind to grasp or bear, and so we struggle in our personal and collective search, walking near the edge of the abyss all the time, to sense and live the paradox, staring into the abis, secretly longing for it, but never choosing to leave all behind and fall.
Nonetheless, we are only to finally fall and achieve the sacred peace we so craved in meeting the Great Certainty.

But are we really *just*, ultimately, inexorably walking towards our death?
Are we all just "walking each other home"?
Is our life just a dramatic tragedy of searching along the temporal direction toward the entropic equilibrium?
Is that timelessness and selflessness to be found only outside of this life?

Well, yes.

But to go outside you might not need to be dead.
All along your life path, there can be exit doors along the way and you need to know how to look in order to find them.

This is important.
You can play for hourse but the sun is about to rise again.
The Earth seems to be spinning just a little too fast so time passes by too fast, but all it really is is that our nostalgic longing for a grip to resist our fall into the abyss is just a little too persistent.
Photographs are grip for us to slow the realization that we are falling, if only just for a moment.
There is no need to struggle this way: no need to take photos, look at them and be nostalgic.
No need to resist the fall into the abyss.

For example, you might ask yourself: *"where is timelessness?"*
As you ask the question and think about choosing the right answer, it takes time.
So timelessness seems not to be there.
If you instead *know* the answer as you're asking the question, that takes no time by definition.
Thus timelessness is found in the a-moment when you wholly shift perspective: doubt is completely shifted into knowledge.

By virtue of necessity, timelessness is here and now.
The ultimate paradox is that the *sacred peace* cannot be anywhere - but here.

So just *know* that the abyss is always here, that all is one, timeless, selfless, silent, peaceful.
Or, more precisely, it is about to be so.

Let's go home.
