To strive to achieve ambitiously stretched goals through overcoming fears, risks and challenges, or to surrender, let go of the need to prove oneself and be content with the status quo?

There appears to be a dichotomy.
To accept or challenge the status quo?
To be content and grateful, or to advance and achieve new limits?
To make things happen, or to let things happen?

The two opposite approaches can only be reconciled by a new overarching framework: they are part of the same process.
Two sides of the same coin.
In order to change something or build something new, it is a necessary condition to first recognize, acknowledge and accept the status quo as it is.
This is so because any actuable alternative to the status quo has to start from it.
Any future scenario to be realizable has to be rooted in the actual present.
So much so, that the best available and clear approximation of any future moment is the present moment - more so the nearest it is to now.
The fundamental forces, laws and principles that live in the present moment carry their inertia (even immutability) into any future moment, and the change happens as a minimal percentage of the total composition of reality, which fundamentally remains the same.

Should one try to achieve any of the personal goals one can have for himself?
Or should one allow himself to pause, relax, wait, listen to the moment, allow things to come into happening - some will pass easily, some will be strongly felt - and follow the urge to express oneself as it comes?
These are not mutually exclusive choices.

Of course, the acceptance can regard, instead of the resulting status of things, the process by which one changes them.
For example, by noticing how to discern things within and things without one's control, or by adopting a mental model for framing all changing things like the process of the flow state.

And the change can regard, instead of the status quo, the process by which one accepts things as they are.
For example, by forgiving, meditating, letting go, embracing, transcending, even loving things as they are.

**The way to *allow* things to actually happen is by *making* them happen.** Not *waiting* for them to happen.
And at the same time, to make things happen there is no forcing, no heavy-lifting, no trying, just doing it.
**The way to *make* things actually happen is by *allowing* them to happen.** Not *forcing* them to happen.

So it is with one's self.
As I say, **the best way to achieve something is to deserve it and not to need it.**
And **the best way to get something is to give it.**

So getting and achieving things is only a function of one's mindset:

1) First, realize you don't need things.

2) Second, know your self, conduct your self, realize your self in the ways in which you are self-aware, self-loving, honest, courageous and kind.

3) Third, realize you now are resourceful and the things you have you deserve because of who you are.

4) Fourth, play, express yourself, develop your talents, share your gifts, give what you have.

You don't have to search for anything nice to attach to your face to look beautiful.
You already have beauty in you.
You don't have to search for anything clever to say to sound smart.
You already have genius in you.
The art of beauty and the content of truth is what you have inside.
You are not really the author creating these things, you are more like the curator and editor.
Be true to yourself, allow the truth to come out, express it gracefully, if you need to edit for sharing with others, keep the truth raw and only infuse your delivery style with kindness.

Instead of trying to achieve some arbitrary external goal that may be copied from others and not necessarily genuinely personal, listen to your intrinsically-motivated personal authenticity and just let it out to shine gracefully.
Once you have grown up from trying some different things, having come to know your evolving self, see how some things are fundamental to who you are.
Discover these things, see them, listen to them, feel them, accept them, love them.
It's who you are. It's your self. It's your truth.

Don't try to be something you are not, don't try to do things that are not true expressions of you. Don't lie to yourself.
Rather, just do the things that want to come out of you. Let them come out.
**Life happens through you, as you.**
This means to know yourself and be yourself. This is having a child's mind. This is the most natural thing in the world. This is the way of Nature.

Don't lie. Don't panic. Don't be evil. Don't try.

Be honest, be brave, be kind, be yourself.
